README.md, before:

# Events Extended for CodeIgniter 4

Lightweight, developer-friendly helpers and tooling that enhance the way you work with the CodeIgniter4 Events system to a more OOP approach.
This package provides a cleaner, more expressive way to register and trigger events using simple event classes and invokable or `handle()`-based listeners.

---

## 📦 Installation

Install via Composer:

```bash
composer require brunoggdev/ci4-events-extended
```

The package auto-loads itself — no configuration or publishing required.

---

## 🚀 Features

- **Event classes instead of string names**  
- **Automatic listener resolution**
  - Invokable listeners (`__invoke`)
  - Or listeners with a `handle()` method  
- **Simple `listen()` helper** to register multiple listeners at once
- **Simple `event()` helper** to dispatch event objects
- **Optional make commands**
  - `make:event`
  - `make:listener`
- Zero configuration, fully plug-and-play

---

## 🧩 Usage

### 1. Create an Event Class

```php
<?php

namespace App\Events;

use App\Entities\User;

class UserUpdated
{
    public function __construct(
        public readonly User $user,
    ) {}
}
```

### 2. Create a Listener

#### Invokable listener:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Listeners;

class SendWelcomeEmail
{
    public function __invoke(UserUpdated $event)
    {
        // your logic here
    }
}
```

#### Or listener with `handle()`:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Listeners;

class SendWelcomeEmail
{
    public function handle(UserUpdated $event)
    {
        // your logic
    }
}
```

### 3. Register Listener(s)

The best place to register your listeners is probably `app/Config/Events.php`:

```php
listen([
    UserUpdated::class => [
        SendWelcomeEmail::class,
        // YourSecondListener::class,
        // YourThirdListener::class,
        // ...
    ],

    YourOtherEvent::class => [
        AnotherListener::class,
    ],
]);
```

Remember that, as we're using the udnerlying CI4 events system, the listeners are executed in the order they're defined by default. 
You can also return false from your listener method to stop subsequent events from being executed.

### 4. Trigger the Event

You can simply call the event() helper wherever you like and pass in the desired event object and it will take care of the rest!

```php
event(new UserUpdated($user));
```

---

## 🎮 CLI Commands

Those commands are available when you run `php spark` from the command line. They'll update your `app/Config/Events.php` file for you.

### `make:event`

Creates a skeleton event class.

```bash
php spark make:event UserUpdated
```

### `make:listener`

Creates a listener class (invokable by default). You can also specify the event class name as a second argument.

```bash
php spark make:listener SendWelcomeEmail UserUpdated
```

---

## 🧠 How It Works

When a listener string like:

```php
\App\Listeners\SendWelcomeEmail::class
```

is registered, the helper:

1. Creates an instance if `__invoke` exists  
2. Registers `[ClassName::class, 'handle']` if `handle()` exists  
3. Throws otherwise  

`event($object)` dispatches using the event object's class name.

Commit message:

fix: actually forcing ci4 to order as indexed on array

README.md, after:

# Events Extended for CodeIgniter 4

Lightweight, developer-friendly helpers and tooling that enhance the way you work with the CodeIgniter4 Events system to a more OOP approach.
This package provides a cleaner, more expressive way to register and trigger events using simple event classes and invokable or `handle()`-based listeners.

---

## 📦 Installation

Install via Composer:

```bash
composer require brunoggdev/ci4-events-extended
```

The package auto-loads itself — no configuration or publishing required.

---

## 🚀 Features

- **Event classes instead of string names**  
- **Automatic listener resolution**
  - Invokable listeners (`__invoke`)
  - Or listeners with a `handle()` method  
- **Simple `listen()` helper** to register multiple listeners at once
- **Simple `event()` helper** to dispatch event objects
- **Optional make commands**
  - `make:event`
  - `make:listener`
- Zero configuration, fully plug-and-play

---

## 🧩 Usage

### 1. Create an Event Class

```php
<?php

namespace App\Events;

use App\Entities\User;

class UserUpdated
{
    public function __construct(
        public readonly User $user,
    ) {}
}
```

### 2. Create a Listener

#### Invokable listener:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Listeners;

class SendWelcomeEmail
{
    public function __invoke(UserUpdated $event)
    {
        // your logic here
    }
}
```

#### Or listener with `handle()`:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Listeners;

class SendWelcomeEmail
{
    public function handle(UserUpdated $event)
    {
        // your logic
    }
}
```

### 3. Register Listener(s)

The best place to register your listeners is probably `app/Config/Events.php`:

```php
listen([
    UserUpdated::class => [
        SendWelcomeEmail::class,
        // YourSecondListener::class,
        // YourThirdListener::class,
        // ...
    ],

    YourOtherEvent::class => [
        AnotherListener::class,
    ],
]);
```

>The listeners will be executed in the order they're indexed in the array and, as we're using the udnerlying CI4 events system, you can also return `false` from your listener method to stop subsequent events from being executed.

### 4. Trigger the Event

You can simply call the event() helper wherever you like and pass in the desired event object and it will take care of the rest!

```php
event(new UserUpdated($user));
```

---

## 🎮 CLI Commands

Those commands are available when you run `php spark` from the command line. They'll update your `app/Config/Events.php` file for you.

### `make:event`

Creates a skeleton event class.

```bash
php spark make:event UserUpdated
```

### `make:listener`

Creates a listener class (invokable by default). You can also specify the event class name as a second argument.

```bash
php spark make:listener SendWelcomeEmail UserUpdated
```

---

## 🧠 How It Works

When a listener string like:

```php
\App\Listeners\SendWelcomeEmail::class
```

is registered, the helper:

1. Creates an instance if `__invoke` exists  
2. Registers `[ClassName::class, 'handle']` if `handle()` exists  
3. Throws otherwise  

`event($object)` dispatches using the event object's class name.
